now the Israeli military police unit
says it's investigating the deaths of
two Palestinians in the occupied West
Bank after an Israeli Rights group
accused the army of conducting illegal
executions the bed selum group posted
this video said to show Israeli military
vehicles following a group of
Palestinians during a raid in the Farah
Camp last
Friday for more on this let's speak to
Charles Stratford he's in Janine in the
occupied West Bank so first of all let's
start with this video what do we know
about what happened to those
two well certainly the video evidence is
is quite strong Samy um this has been
released by yes the Israeli Rights group
b Sim they say the incident happened on
December the eth and what you're looking
at here is um Israeli military Jeep
pursuing a a group of men in what seems
to be a
courtyard um B selum say that uh the
first victim you see there a 25-year-old
Ramy junab now he apparently was holding
something that it's believed the Israeli
Army suspected could well have been an
explosive device he's shot he falls to
the ground um he's then seen lifting his
arm um and then there are the Jeep
approaches closer to him and more shots
ring out it's believed he was shot by
possibly two soldiers in that jeep and
he was left for dead um and he died
yesterday of those injuries now the
second part of this video shows um
another member of that group a man
called th Shaheen 36y old who apparently
was
unarmed who you see hiding under a
parked vehicle a white parked vehicle
there now Israeli soldiers approach and
he is shot dead too as we've seen in
previous incidents as well where
something like this has been caught on
video what's interesting is we've see
the Israeli military or a soldier get
out of the vehicle and take photographs
of um at least one of the men that were
shot so yes as you rightly say on the
basis of this investig of this this
incident and this evidence that is being
put forward by B selin the Israeli
military police are saying they have
launched an
investigation um into it uh and the
evidence uh the the results of this
investigation will be given to a
military prosecutor but it's really
important to recognize here that in
terms of the level of convictions in
terms of soldiers being called to
account and actually being punished for
incidents like this they are very very
rare indeed it's it's usually incidents
like this that are caught on camera and
then are given to as I say respected
human rights organizations like bet
selim that put these forward to the
Israeli military they say that this
investigation is going to be launched
and potentially somebody will held to
account but convictions are
exceptionally rare I mean you only have
to look for example at say the the sheer
amount of of miners um and children that
have been killed since the beginning of
the war here in the occupied West Bank
in these daily nightly raids um in
various cities towns and villages in the
occupied territories I mean I I think
back for example to the case of
8-year-old Ahmed El Gul who was shot
from around 50 M away in the back of the
head died immediately his friend belal
who was 15 this was in Janine I suppose
about 2 and a half weeks ago um was was
shot and killed as well again you see an
Israeli soldier get out of the vehicle
and actually take a photograph of one of
these kids it was actually 15-year-old
Bal who was who was photographed now
this is all on on camera this is all on
CCTV it's very strong evidence indeed of
a assassinations in in this case miners
the most recent case the B selim
obviously this is a 25 and and a 36 year
old man but the 36-year old man is
unequivocally
unarmed so yes despite this
investigation being launched according
to Israeli military police on the basis
of this very strong evidence it is safe
to say that the chances of a conviction
remain very very rare indeed all right
we'll leave it there thanks so much
Bernard
Smith